**Meeting Minutes **

Student Government 2018-2019

Monday, November 12, 2018

1\. Welcome by Ambrose Ludwyche, Executive Committee President

2\. Introduction by Senior Leadership Team (SLT), Chief Officers of the
College

-   Lauren Bowen, Provost

-   Matthew Damschroder, Vice President for Student Life and Dean of
    Students

-   Rob Yelnosky, Vice President for Enrollment Management

-   Anne Wood, Assistant Vice President and Chief Information Officer

-   Jim Watt, Vice President for Advancement

-   James Troha, President

-   Marita Gilbert, Dean of Institutional Equity and Inclusive
    Excellence

-   Absent:

    -   Bethany Sheffield, Executive Assistant to the President

    -   Christine Gibson, Vice President for Finance and Administration

    -   Gabe Welsch, Vice President for Strategic Communications and
        Marketing

8\. Open Forum: Questions for the SLT

a.  Hiring Process: PLEXUS Advisor

    i.  Aware of the need for an Advisor and in the process of hiring
        one, but unlikely will happen this year due to the length of the
        search process and Budget, students will be involved in the
        hiring process

b.  How are you working to diversify the faculty more?

    ii. There is a commitment and desire to diversify the staff outlined
        in the Strategic Plan and is something paid attention to
        annually

    iii. Recently joined the Contortion on Diversity and Inclusion

    iv. Pursuing strategic efforts on how to be more appealing to
        diverse candidates and how to retain them

    v.  Inclusion Ordinance December 18^th^ will help support a more
        inclusive Huntingdon

    vi. Changing the way we think about hiring to include a longer
        timeline

    vii. Expanding upon visiting lecturers with more post-doctoral
        fellows, one-semester faculty exchange which offers different
        perspectives

c.  Biased Instances: No real progression to addressing them

    viii. Conversations continue in small groups, classes and with
        visiting speakers

    ix. Students are in conversations about how to change the campus
        culture, but these events are often not campus-wide and are more
        intensive and selective

    x.  Training opportunities such as Green Dot and Faculty Diversity
        Training

    xi. Modifying Orientation and Inbound Trainings

    xii. Implemented a new Online Training for incoming students that
        includes many of the Diversity and Inclusion Expectations

    xiii. RSO meetings

    xiv. Leadership Trainings

    xv. Changes in the General Education Curriculum reflect the messages
        and expectations of the campus community

    xvi. On the conduct side of things, have made it more clear that
        their participation in the Juniata College community is not
        welcome

d.  Be more proactive, not reactive

    xvii. More several speaker series or expand student voice

    xviii.  Highlight more types of diversity

e.  Dramatic shift in the culture/climate of the campus community and a
    divide due to mistrust based on a lack of communication and students
    being blindsided by changes

    xix. Plan looking forward to improve communication between
        Administration and Faculty, Administration and Students, and
        Faculty and Students

        a.  Communication via email

        b.  continue the student representation on every Academic
            Committee or increase the number of student representatives
            on committees to be more than one

        c.  Provost Bowen will bring up this discussion in the next
            Faculty Meeting about making a constitutional change to the
            Constitution with the Executive Committee

        d.  Matthew is the voice for Students on the SLT

        e.  Students are employed in each department and sit in on
            meetings and offer their perspectives

        f.  Survey requests

f.  Retention rates are dangerously low for students of color compared
    to other students

    xx. The Enrollment and Retention Team looks in experiences for
        obstacles that prevented these students from being successful
        with an exit survey

    xxi. New software package that helps them better understand the
        nuances of students

    xxii. One-on-one conversations with students who chose to leave or
        those who have graduated

    xxiii.  Look at the group-resources and staffing in departments that
        were not the same to promote inclusion within the classroom

    xxiv. Partnering with counselors through community-based
        organizations that will serve as resources to students from home

    xxv. Advertising the networking opportunities

g.  Full-time Advisor for Community Engagement?

    xxvi. Yes, since there is a local engagement component to the New
        Curriculum, looking at expanding this Office

h.  Rugby fields behind Ellis are flooded. Are there plans for the
    spring?

    xxvii.  Matthew will have a conversation with Athletics about a plan
        for field space for club sports, such as access to the turf
        fields

i.  Housing as it pertains to retention

    xxviii.   The Board of Trustees understands the need to prioritize
        renovating residential buildings and they will be starting from
        the worst to the best

    xxix. The alumni that donate do not necessarily know what students
        want

    xxx. "Yes" to students making a "Student Wish List"

j.  How much of the Believe Campaign is not specified and can students
    have input in where it is spent?

    xxxi. The majority of the money raised is for scholarships. Want to
        make the College affordable for students and want to give
        students what they need to be successful while they are here

    xxxii.  Determining which initiative with affect the most people is
        difficult and there are many competing initiatives

k.  Why is CWS not a CW?

    xxxiii.   It is, but it is a pre-requisite for your CW credits and
        you need to take more CW-designated classes

l.  Can we enhance the Museum?

    xxxiv.  Yes, are looking into grants to expand it and support the
        storage collections

m.  Are CWS Lab Leaders still going to exist next year?

    xxxv. Yes, the peer leader component of First Year Composition and
        First Year Foundations will be important.

n.  How much money do we have to spend on the dorm renovations?

    xxxvi.  None of the gifts at this time would address Residence
        Halls, but will be raising funds for these projects

o.  How merit scholarships coverage changes?

    xxxvii.   Need to communicate the flat scholarship with a tuition
        increase better

p.  Freshman Class meeting about sexual assault?

    xxxviii.    Will look into because not aware of one

q.  Everyone is very upset about the meal plan options. Will there be a
    discussion about next semester?

    xxxix.  Matthew said there will be discussion of the meal plan
        opportunities going forward, but they are not contractually able
        to make changes for next semester
